---
title: João Carlos Ottobboni
slug: resume
template: page
---

### Web Developer

Highly motivated and versatile web developer and technical writer who is passionate about writing clean, efficient code and maintaining modern standards and security.

- [joaocarlos.dev](https://www.joaocarlos.dev)
- [jcottobboni@gmail.com](mailto:jcottobboni[AT]gmail[DOT]com)
- Goiânia, Brasil

## Technical Skills

- **Languages** - Ruby, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bash
- **Concepts** - RESTful API Design/Integration, MVC Architecture, CI/CD, Agile
- **Tools/Environment** - Node.js, Git, Webpack, Jenkins, Chrome DevTools, Jira, CLI, Sass
- **Frameworks/Libraries** - React, jQuery, Material, Bootstrap, Ruby on Rails
- **Data** - SQL (PostgreSQL,Oracle) , JSON
- **Testing** - Unit


## Experience

#### Project Manager

**SIEDOS - Systems and Results** - _2015 - Present | Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil_

Analyze and Develop Public management administrative systems for government entities, and others in Ruby on Rails using Oracle Database and PostgreSQL. At the beginning of my participation I worked with administrative systems in Ruby on Rails in version 4.0, allocated in an public organization of the state of goiás in the region of Goiânia. Working with requirements survey, user support, project management using mainly the redmine tool and scrum practices, i did back-end and front-end development. I have worked with seven administrative systems for different areas of the public government entity. I was directly responsible for the delivery of one of the administrative systems taking over the process after the project started until the final delivery to the client. After delivery of these systems I was allocated in the company building to work with human resources system, performing all the tasks of the software development life cycle, implementing and using agile methodologies. I worked with continuous integration using Gitlab-CE, this enabled a huge change in our routines from the cleanest process to develop implementing GitLab Flow

#### Programmer

**Umbrella Tecnologias Ltda - ME** - _2012 - 2015 | Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil_

During the time as a programmer at umbrella technologies, I proceeded with the maintenance and improvement of all the websites I had built in the internship period and built new ones for other clients. I worked actively with the customization of layouts in Joomla and the creation and adaptation of plugins for the CMS. I worked on building systems using the ruby ​​on rails framework in version 3.2 and performed maintenance and evolutions on the existing system in ruby ​​on rails 2.3. The niches served in relation to rails were law firms, regional councils for real estate brokers, and real estate brokers unions. I implemented systems in regional councils of realtors in other states served by the company, providing training for the staff of the agency and raising requirements for implementation of adaptations and improvements. I have developed a lot of project management skills and requirements requirements in this period.

#### Intern

**Umbrella Tecnologias Ltda - ME** - _2011 - 2012 | Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil_

I developed in this period as trainee umbrella technologies activities related to analysis, development, maintenance and testing of software. I have created websites with CMS Joomla for several clients replacing websites made with html and css only. I have maintained and upgraded existing websites made in html / css. I had meetings with clients to raise requirements and present the developed websites. During the period I also acted as validator of data generated by the systems made in rails and also testing various system and website functionalities in order to find errors or nonconformities with the past requirements. I worked on user support. I worked with development of some functionalities in Ruby on Rails this time I worked with system in versions 2.3 and 3.2 of the rails framework. I gained extra skills in the area of networking and server configuration,  and network infrastructure.





## Open Source Projects
- [Go Rails](https://github.com/jcottobboni/gorails) - GoRails Website
- [Go Blog](https://github.com/jcottobboni/go_blog) - Blog engine
- [Go Comments](https://github.com/jcottobboni/go_comments) - Comments Engine
- [Go Geography](https://github.com/jcottobboni/go_geography) - City and States from brazil engine
- [Go Jobs](https://github.com/jcottobboni/go_jobs) - Jobs Engine
- [Easy Static Pages](https://github.com/jcottobboni/easy_static_pages) - Static pages manager engine

## Speaking

#### Rails Engines in Action

**3° GORAILS Conf** - _2017 | Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil_

Modulating your applications, Say no to monolithic applications. In this talk we will show you how to create and publish Ruby on Rails engines, integrate them into an application with usage examples.

## Education


#### Software Engineer Graduate Degree

**FASAM** - _2013 - 2015 | Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil_
Objectives GENERAL: Qualification of professionals in Software Engineering, able to manage, develop and maintain small and large software development projects. SPECIFIC: Empower the professional to manage complex software projects. Requalificar computational professionals with lack in specific disciplines of Software Engineering. To enable the professional to fully exercise all stages of the software development project, such as requirements analysis, software design and architecture, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance. Target Audience The Specialization Course in Software Engineering is intended for professionals with a higher education in the following areas: Software Engineering, Computer Science, Information Systems, Data Processing and related areas interested in updating or acquiring theoretical and practical knowledge in Software Engineering.

#### Technologist in Analysis and Development of Systems

**College SENAI FATESG** - _2010 - 2013 | Goiânia, Goiás, Brazil_

# Accomplishments

- IEL Internship Award.
